This video is brought to you by 1AAuto.com,
your source for quality replacement parts
and the best service on the internet.
Hi I'm Mike Green. I'm one of the owners of
1A Auto. I want to help you save time and
money repairing and maintaining your vehicle.
I'm going to use my 20 plus years experience
restoring cars and trucks, to show you the
correct way to install parts from 1AAuto.com.
The right parts, installed correctly, are
going to save you time and money. Thank you
and enjoy the video.
In this video, we are going to talk about
wiper blades and wiper refills. There are
three different general types of wiper blades.
There is the hook style on the lower part
there is a little hook at the end. This is
the style that's used on almost all new cars
and a majority of cars from the late 90s up.
The second style is the pin style the wiper
blade mounts to the arm with a little pin.
The third style is wiper refill.
This car, an old GTO, actually has a refill
in the wiper blade. When you change your wiper
blades is up to you. If you start seeing little
lines of water getting left behind, you should
inspect your wiper blades and make sure they're
nice and smooth all the way across. If they
have any little ridges or divots in them then
it's probably time to change them. Obviously,
you don't want to let them go too long because
once the wiper blade runs out then some of
the little teeth in your mechanism can actually
scratch the windshield. Generally on newer
cars, the blade is by hook style. It has a
little tab on the back, and after pressing
on the tab, you pull the whole blade back
and it comes off. You can buy a new wiper
blade to replace that. It goes back on by
inserting the arm through the blade and then
locking it back on.
Another style of wiper blade is what we have
here on this older GM truck. It's kind of
a pin style. You actually need a screwdriver.
You have to be kind of firm with it. It's
just mounted onto a pin and you'd buy that
blade to replace it. You push it right on.
Once you know what type you have, all you
need to know when buying new blades is what
length you have. They come in anywhere from
8-inch for some older vehicles, all the way
up to a 30-inch range for some of the newer
vehicles.
On some older vehicles, like here on this
old GTO, you can do the same thing. There's
actually a tab under here that you press down
on. Then you can lift the blade up and firmly
pull it off. Many a times, the original style
stainless steel blades are not available.
What you can do is use a wiper refill. You
pinch the end together and pull out. Then
just the rubber comes out. Then obviously
to put it back in, you need to make sure on
the arm there's little teeth that come down
and this metal here slides into those teeth.
You slide it in and there are usually four
to five sets depending on how big your wiper
blade is. There you go.
We hope this helps you out.
Brought to you by www.1AAuto.com, your source
for quality replacement parts and the best
service on the internet. Please feel free
to call us toll free, 888-844-3393. We're
the company that's here for you on the internet
and in person.